# VSDBabySOC Mini-Project

## Introduction
An SoC (System on Chip) is a single microchip which includes all components of a computer. It includes a processor, memory, and graphics integrated on one piece of silicon. The various components can be different Intellectual Property (IP) cores, which are reusable blocks of logic, hardware, or data. IP cores are a solution to the design productivity gap and provide the following benefits:  
* **Faster time to market:** Companies do not have to design and manufacture a solution from scratch.
* **Separation of concerns:** Engineers can focus on solving the important task at hand, while knowledge of other layers is abstracted away.
* **Reliable design:** IP cores are tried and tested for their functionality.  

The VSDBabySOC is such an SoC. It is made up of four major components, which can be thought of as IPs:  
* **PLL (`avsdpll.v`):** A clock signal generator using a Phase Lock Loop (synchronizes the output signal with the phase and frequency of a reference signal).
* **RVMYTH (`rvmyth.v`):** A simple RISC-V based CPU.
* **DAC: (`avsddac.v`)** A digital to analog converter for the data generated by the CPU.

Together, these components make up the top-level **VSDBabySOC (`vsdbabysoc.v`)** module. The datapath can described as the RISC-V CPU using the clock signal generated by the PLL. The CPU outputs 10-bit data, which is presented to the DAC, which processes it to give an analog output.

*Source code available at: https://github.com/manili/VSDBabySoC*
```
VSDBabySoC/
├── src/
│   ├── include/
│   │   ├── sandpiper.vh
│   │   └── other header files...
│   ├── module/
│   │   ├── vsdbabysoc.v      # Top-level module integrating all components
│   │   ├── rvmyth.v          # RISC-V core module
│   │   ├── avsdpll.v         # PLL module
│   │   ├── avsddac.v         # DAC module
│   │   └── testbench.v       # Testbench for simulation
└── output/
└── compiled_tlv/         # Holds compiled intermediate files if needed
```

## Pre-Synthesis Simulation
> Pre-synthesis simulation of VSDBabySoC is available here:  
https://github.com/sidj21/soc_design/blob/main/VSDBabySoC/pre-synthesis.md

## Post-Synthesis Simulation
> Pre-synthesis simulation of VSDBabySoC is available here:  
https://github.com/sidj21/soc_design/blob/main/VSDBabySoC/post-synthesis.md

## Static Timing Analysis
> The static timing analysis of VSDBabySoC is available here:  
https://github.com/sidj21/soc_design/blob/main/VSDBabySoC/sta.md
